doc: basic tutorial (#85)
AdRoll/baker: content/en/docs/Tutorials/basic.md

---
title: "Basic: build a simple pipeline"
weight: 410
date: 2020-11-13
description: >
    A step-by-step tutorial to learn how to build a Baker pipeline using the included components
---
In this tutorial you'll learn how to create a Baker-based program to process a given dataset
(in CSV format), filter records based on your needs and save the result to a file.

> The dataset we're going to use is an open dataset containing ratings on many
> [Ramens](https://www.kaggle.com/residentmario/ramen-ratings).

Reviewer: Since we're jumping from data processing to food, a small sentence might help for the transition here. Plus I'm not sure everybody know what a ramen is
```suggestion
The dataset we're going to use is an open dataset containing ratings on many 
[Ramens](https://www.kaggle.com/residentmario/ramen-ratings), the famous japanese noodle soop!
```

or something like that maybe

Author: > I'm not sure everybody know what a ramen is

Shame on them! :laughing: 

fixing..

Our goal will be to discard all ramens that have never been on a top-ten ranking, split the
results into multiple folders named after the ramens source countries, and upload the

> resulting lists to S3.

Reviewer: use of future tense.
our goal is

Author: fixed

[define a `baker.Components`](/docs/how-tos/baker_components/) object and pass it to
[`baker.MainCLI()`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/AdRoll/baker#MainCLI):

```go
package main

import (
	"log"

    "github.com/AdRoll/baker"
)

func main() {
    components := baker.Components{/* define components */}
    if err := baker.MainCLI(components); err != nil {
		log.Fatal(err)
	}
}
```

### Define baker.Components

Our `baker.Components` implementation must:

* include the components we need to use
* define `FieldByName` and `FieldName` to map our dataset

The simplest way to add the components to Baker is just to add all available components:

```go
components := baker.Components{
    Inputs:      input.All,
    Filters:     filter.All,
    Outputs:     output.All,
    Uploads:     upload.All,
    /* ... */
}
```

As for the mapping functions, we need to map from name to `FieldIndex` and vice-versa:

```go
var fields = []string{
	"review_num",
	"brand",
	"variety",
	"style",
	"country",
	"stars",
	"top_ten",
}

var fieldsByName = map[string]baker.FieldIndex{
	"review_num": 0,
	"brand":      1,
	"variety":    2,
	"style":      3,
	"country":    4,
	"stars":      5,
	"top_ten":    6,
}

> 

Reviewer: maybe we should use the new `[fields]` section for that?

Author: done

func fieldByName(name string) (idx baker.FieldIndex, ok bool) {
	idx, ok = fieldsByName[name]
	return idx, ok
}

func fieldName(idx baker.FieldIndex) string {
	return fields[idx]
}

components := baker.Components{
    /* ... */
    FieldByName: fieldByName,
    FieldName:   fieldName,
}
```

The complete program is available in the
[`tutorials/` folder](https://github.com/AdRoll/baker/blob/main/tutorials/basic/main.go) in
the Baker repository.

## Run the program

Once the code and the configuration file are ready, we can run the topology:

```sh
$ go build -o myProgram ./main.go 
# Test it works as expected
$ ./myProgram -help
# run the topology
$ ./myProgram topology.toml
```

Among the messages that Baker prints on stdout, the stats messages are particularly interesting:

```sh
Stats: 1s[w:0 r:0] total[w:41 r:2584 u:11] speed[w:20 r:1292] errors[p:0 i:0 f:2543 o:0 u:0]
```

Take a look at the [dedicated page](/docs/how-tos/read_stats/) to learn how to read the values.

## Verify the result

> The resulting files are splitted into multiple folders, one for each country, and then uploaded.

Reviewer: to split split split

Author: :roll_eyes:

> The [`S3`](/docs/components/uploads/s3/) upload removes the files once uploaded, so you'll find
> only the folders skeleton in the output destination folder:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`S3`](/docs/components/uploads/s3/) upload removes the files once uploaded, so you'll find
only find empty directories in the output destination folder:
```

```sh
~ ls --tree -l /tmp/out
drwxrwxr-x   - username 16 Nov 11:43 /tmp/out
drwxrwxr-x   - username 16 Nov 11:43 ├── China
drwxrwxr-x   - username 16 Nov 11:43 ├── Hong Kong
drwxrwxr-x   - username 16 Nov 11:43 ├── Indonesia
drwxrwxr-x   - username 16 Nov 11:43 ├── Japan
drwxrwxr-x   - username 16 Nov 11:43 ├── Malaysia
drwxrwxr-x   - username 16 Nov 11:43 ├── Myanmar
drwxrwxr-x   - username 16 Nov 11:43 ├── Singapore
drwxrwxr-x   - username 16 Nov 11:43 ├── South Korea
drwxrwxr-x   - username 16 Nov 11:43 ├── Taiwan
drwxrwxr-x   - username 16 Nov 11:43 ├── Thailand

> drwxrwxr-x   - username 16 Nov 11:43 └── USA

Reviewer: nit: can't we just use `ls -l /tmp/out`

Author: yes we could, I just wanted to point out that all folders were empty. but they can trust us anyway :smile:
